	This video is about a pattern peaple thought was impossible, and a material that wasn't supposed to exist.
 The story begins over 400 years ago in Prague. I want to tell you five things about Johannes Kepler that are 
essential to our story.

	Number one: Kepler is most famous for figuring out that the shapes of planetary orbits are ellipses, but
before he came to this realization, he invented a model of the Solar system in which the planets were on nested
spheres separated by Platonic solids.
	What are the Platonic solids? Well they are objects where all of the faces are indentical and all of the 
vertices are identical, which means you can rotate them through some angle, and they look the same as they did
before. So the cube is an obvious example. Then you also have:

	- the tetrahedron
	- the octahedron
	- the dodecahedron (which has 12 pentagonal sides)
	- and the icosahedron (which has 20 sides)

And that's it. There are just five Platonic solids, which was convenient for Kepler because in his day they only
knew about six planets. So this allowed him to put a unique Platonic solid between each of the planetary spheres.
Essentially he used them as spacers he carefully selected the order of the Platonic solids, so that the distances
between planets would match astronomical observations as closely as possible. He had this deep abiding belief that
there was some geometric regularity in the Universe, and of course there is. Just not this.

	Two: Kepler's attraction to geometry extended to more practical questions like, "How do you stack cannonballs"
so they take up the least space on a ship's deck?". By 1611 Kepler had an answer: hexagonal close packing and the 
face centred cubic arrangement are both equivalently and optimally efficient, with cannonballs occupying about 74
percent of the volume they take up. Now this might seem like the obvious way to stack spheres: I mean it is the
way that oranges are stacked in the supermarket. But Kepler hadn't proved it. He just stated it as fact, which is
why this bacame known as Kepler's Conjecture. Now it turns out he was right, but it took around 400 years to prove
it. The formal proof was only published in the journal Form of Mathematics in 2017.

	Three: Kepler published his conjecture in a pamphlet called Deniva Sexangula on the six cornered snowflake.
In which he wondered, there must be a definite cause why, whenever snow begins to fall its initial formations 
invariably display the shape of a six cornered starlet. For if it happens by chance why do they not fall just as
well with five corners, or with seven. Why always with six? In Kepler's day, there was no real theory of atoms
or molecules or how they self-arrange into crystals, but Kepler seemed to be on the verge of understanding this.
I mean he speculates about the smallest natural unit of a liquid like water, essentially a water molecule and how
these tiny units could stack together mechanically to form the hexagonal crystal. Not unlike the hexagonal close-
packed cannonballs.

	Four: Kepler knew that regular hexagons can cover a flat surface perfectly with no gaps. In mathematical
jargon we say the hexagon tiles the plane periodically. You know that a tiling is periodec if you can duplicate a
portion of it and continue the pattern only through translation, with no rotations of reflections. Periodec tillings
can also have rotational symmetry. A rhombus has twofold symmetry because if you rotate it 180 degrees, one half
turn, the pattern looks the same as it did before. Equilateral triangles have three-fold symmetry. Squares have
four-fold symmetry and hexagons have six fold symmetry. But those are the only symmetries you can have: two, three,
four, and six. There is no five-fold symmetry. Regular pentagons do not tile the plane. But that didn't stop Kepler
from trying. See this pattern right here? He published it in his book harmonics mundi or harmony of the world. 
It has a certain five-fold symmetry, but not exactly, and it's not entirely clear how you would continue this 
pattern to tile the whole plane. There are an infinite number of shapes that can tile the plane periodically.
The regular hexagon can only tile the plane periodically. There are also an infinite number of shapes that can
tile the plane periodically or non-periodically. For example, isosceles triangles can tile plane periodically,
but if you rotate a pair of triangles, well then the pattern is no longer perfetly periodic. A sphinx tile can join
with another rotated 180 degrees and tile the plane periodically. But a different arrangement of these same tiles is
non-periodic. This raises the question: Are there some tiles that can only tile the plane non-periodically?
Well in 1961 Hao Wanh was studying multi-colored square tiles the rules were, touching  edges must be the same color,
and you can't rotate of reflect tiles only slide them around. Now the question was, if you're given a set of these
tiles, can you tell if they will tile the plane? Wang's conjecture was that if they can tile the plane, well they
can do so periodically, but it turned out Wang's conjecture was false. His student, Robert Burger, found a set of
20426 tiles, that could tile the plane but only non-periodically. Think about that for a second: here we have a 
finite set of tiles, Okay it's a large number, but it's finite. And it can tile all the way out to infinity without
ever repeating the same pattern. There's no way even to force them to tile periondically and a set of tiles like 
this that can only tile the plane non-periodically is called an aperiodic tiling. And mathematicians wanted to know:
Were there aperiodec tilings that required fewer tiles? Well Robert Burger himself found a set with only 104. Donald
Knuth got the number down to 92, and then in 1969, you had Raphael Robinson who came up with six tiles. Just six, 
that could tile the entire plane without ever repeating. Then along came Roger Penrose, who would ultimately get the
number down to two.

	Penrose started with a pentagon. He added other pentagons around it and of course noticed the gaps, but this
new shape could fit within a larger pentagon which gave Penrose an idea: What if he took the original pentagons and
broke them into smaller pentagons? Well now some of the gaps start connecting up into rhombus shapes, other gaps
have three spikes. But Penrose didn't stop there: He subdivided the pentagons again. Now some of the gaps are large
enough that you can use pentagons to fill in part of them and the remaining holes you're left with are just rhombuses,
stars, and a fraction of a star that penrose calls a justice cap. You can keep subdividing indefinitely, and you will
only ever find these shapes. So with just these pieces, you can tile the plane aperiodically with an almost five-fold
symmetry.

	The fifth thing abou Johannes Kepler is that if you take his pentagon pattern, and you overlay it on top of
Penrose's, the two match up perfectly. Once Penrose had his pattern, he found ways to simplify the tiles. He distilled
the geometry down to just two tiles: a thick rhombus and a thin rhombus. The rules for how they can come together
can be enforced by bumps and notches, or by matching colors. And the rules ensure that these two single tiles can
only tile the plane non-periodically. Just two tiles go all the way out to infinity without ever repeating.
	
	Now one way to see this is to print up two copies of the same Penrose pattern, and one on a transparency
and overlay them on top of each other. Now the resulting interference you get is called a Moire. Where it is dark
the patterns are not aligend, you can see there are also some light spots and that;s where the patterns do match up.
So these patterns are perfectly matching up here, but not along these redial lines.

	Does this mean there is only one pattern and every picture that we see is just a portion of that overall
singular pattern? Well the answer is no. There are actually an uncountably infinite number of different patterns of
thin and thick rhombuses that tile the entire plane. Any finite region of one of these tiling appears infinitely many
times in all of the other versions of those tilings. I mean don't get me wrong those tiling are also different in an
infinite number of ways, but it's impossible to tell that unless you could see the whole pattern, which is impossible.
These's this kind of paradox to Penrose tilings where there's an uncountable infinity of different versions, but just
by looking at them, you could never tell them apart.